# ROSETTA-X-to-C-code-2023
Modified version of the 2021 ROSETTA code to look only at those mutations which change an amino acid to a cysteine
This directory should output the proper counts of each X to C mutations for each gene under each histology. The specific file which contains the counts is labeled "Genomics_Output_Processed_specific_Cys.txt", which is generated by the Genomics_Clinical_Mutations_Counter_cystine.ipynb file (when nested in the proper directories). 

====File Descriptions===
Genomics_Clinical_Mutations_Counter_cystine.ipynb- base file which performs downloading of all requisite raw data, building the counts matrix froms scratch

Genomics_Clinical_Mutations_Counter_cystine_only.ipynb- version of Genomics_Clinical_Mutations_Counter_cystine.ipynb which skips downloading of raw data, instead using the contents of df_mutfiles_specific.7z and df_mutfiles_specific_cysteine.7z as its data. Said contents are a freeze of data retrieved between February and March 2022. 

Genomics_Output_Processed_specific_Cys.txt- output of the above files. Columns consist of ROSETTA Histology Codes, with rows denoting {Gene}p.{initial amino acid}{residue}Cys, with each value denoting how many times a given mutation occurs withinthe given data set.

Genes_ManyChromosomes.xlsx lists chromosome numbers for all genes for reference while gene renaming as an additional layer of cross-check. If a gene name is truly an alias, it is on the same chromosome.

df_mutfiles.zip can be unzipped to create a ~180MB file named df_mutfiles.csv. This file contains ROSETTA coded, sequenced samples with sample ID, study ID and mutated gene information for every gene in every sample included in our genomic analysis.

df_mutfiles_specific.zip- version of above file which denotes each different residue for a mutation AS a separate mutation

df_mutfiles_specific_cysteine- version of above filtered for only cysteine mutations

The following libraries were used in compiling the source code.
1. NumPy 1.19.2
2. pandas 1.1.3
